The first time you walk out
there. it's jaw-dropping.
♪
It's completely
shocking and unexpected.
Oh. it was a great day.
♪
Brilliant set.
Catherine Goldschmidt:
It's really badass.
Thank you very
much. Drinks on me.
It was a storm inside.
Oh. my God.
It's unbelievable!
(epic music playing)
Free Gift Cards and Tech Items with
Southwest Points: www.fairylandshop.me
(music fades out)
This is a very iconic
moment in George's books.
The Battle of Burning Mill.
Two houses that were
pitted against each other.
And it's the metaphor for
the history of violence
and how you get to a point
where there is no forgiveness.
And that's where we find
ourselves this season.
♪
Matt Smith: Morning.
Morning. How we doin'?
Geeta Vasant Patel: Jim
Clay. in collaboration with
the special effects department.
created a place that truly
felt real and haunted
and brought the book to life.
Jim Clay: I was well
pleased when Ryan said
we're going to feature
the interior of Harrenhal.
so that was one of
the first things
we went to work on designing.
Harrenhal. "It's a cursed castle
designed by a deranged mind."
was the sort of brief I got.
And so. it's dilapidated.
It's haunted by its
past and its present.
Smith: Oh. it's huge. It
goes on and on and on.
Jim Clay has just
done brilliant work.
The texture and the scale
and the vision behind
a lot of his work
is really superior.
Melissa Bernstein: It's a set that
I'd find myself getting lost in.
You'd turn the wrong
corner and you're like.
"Wait. where am I?"
Like. you could get as
disoriented as Daemon
walking through that set.
And I think that's
really saying something.
Malcolm Roberts:
It was pretty big.
I mean. it filled
the whole stage.
From a structural
point of view. mainly.
how are you gonna hide
your integral structure
if you've got a
steel frame that.
obviously. you
can't see in shot.
then we've gotta try
and conceal that.
That's what makes it
fun. really. though.
Clay: I wanted to give the
whole four-walled world
the advantages of tracking
shots. Steadicam shots.
and the actors being
enveloped in the entire world.
Dominic Masters: You can go where
you like. shoot what you like.
pretty much 360 around the set.
Whichever way you
look. you'd be covered.
And the idea was it
should be quite a maze.
You shouldn't feel like
you know where you are
at any given time
in that castle.
Got lost in there most mornings.
Ryan Condal: This is
honestly my favorite set
that Jim has built. to date.
because it's so well
brought to life.
the idea of this ruined castle.
the fact that he
made it rain inside.
the way he made
the weirwood roots
break through all of
the stones that you see.
that. slowly. the castle being
reclaimed by the old gods.
This here is the guy
who makes me wet.
- (laughter)
- Yeah.
(indistinct chatter)
He's the rain punisher. Tom.
- This is it.
- Screws me up every day.
Harrenhal. wetter than
an otter's pocket.
- I know. But I do like a bit of rain.
- (laughter)
Jason Rickwood: Harrenhal's
supposed to be this windy. wet place
and we're doing
some interior stuff
and we need it to
be raining inside
'cause the whole idea
of it being dilapidated
was there's holes in the
wall and holes in the roof.
Condal: Man. did
we soak that place.
But it really brings
an incredible amount
of realism and
texture to the place.
which was really important
for the storytelling.
Mike Dawson: My brief was.
"It's gonna be really damp."
That was it.
And in the end.
my last brief was.
"It's gotta rain inside
like it does outside."
And it didn't stop raining.
My God. it was horrendous.
But it-it looks amazing.
Masters: It was a slightly
late-in-the-day idea to have the water
dripping into the set. so
we weren't totally prepared
in terms of tanking the set.
which we normally would
if you had a lot of water.
But we coped. and special
effects did a great job
with soaking up the
water around the set
when it was all pouring in.
Dawson: It was too late
to retrospectively fix it.
so we had to just
minimize damage.
So. we did individual tanks
and tried to
contain it that way.
which worked really
well and it looked real.
♪
I thought. "Matt's gonna
freak out. ya know.
walking around in his armor
all day long with rain."
But it looked so good.
and he was lovin' it.
Smith: We were wet from. like. eight
in the morning 'til eight at night.
which was quite fun.
actually. to be honest.
I love all that. Like.
gettin' sort of properly wet.
and I hate being really hot.
but I quite like
being really wet.
Rickwood: To make sure
his continuity is correct.
he's gotta be
soaked all the time.
and the best way of doin' it is
turn the water on and say.
"Matt. can you go stand
under that. please?"
In my experience with
working with Matt.
he likes to embrace
all the challenges
you throw at him. in that
sense. so it was good.
Goldschmidt: The script is
describing the character can't see.
What does that mean
for the audience?
So. that sequence wound
up being incredibly fun
to light and conceive and shoot
because. obviously. it's
raining and lightning.
and we were playing
a lot with shadows
and silhouettes and film noir
but the way it looks when it's
completely wet and dripping
and he's standing there. I
mean. it's really badass.
Smith: Quite fun. though.
♪
Condal: The Brackens
and the Blackwoods
are the Hatfields and
McCoys of this time period.
We don't really know why
they hate each other.
They simply just
hate each other.
And they're always ready
to fight each other.
That guy's gonna
rip your face off.
- Actor: Okay. Yeah.
- Okay? Great.
Directing that opening
moment of episode 203.
where you find all the
bodies dead after a battle
took quite a bit of prep.
Aeron Bracken is
a human one minute
and a prosthetic dummy the next.
but you can't tell.
Waldo Mason: First thing
we did was scan his head.
- So. we gonna just lie you on the floor.
- Cool.
And then we'll do a couple
of options of. like.
mouth open. eyes
closed. uh. eyes open
maybe. head back.
and then. we'll
run it past Geeta
and she can tell
us what she likes.
And we'll process whichever
version of that she likes.
- Amazin'. Cool.
- Cool.
And we're off.
We've just literally
finished printing his head.
ready to be remolded
and cleaned up.
The shoulders in two
halves on another printer.
Just assemble it like a. like
a jigsaw puzzle at the end.
It's so lifelike.
It's so real.
Rickwood: It was incredible.
I mean. the fact that
we were doing an
extreme close-up
on the prosthetic
dummy of an actor
that's in the scene before.
and you can get away with that.
just shows the quality
of Waldo's work.
So. you're lying on a
body bag. by the way.
- Oh. great.
- Speaker: Surprise!
Goldschmidt: Geeta always imagined
it as one simple. elegant shot
where we're on Aeron
Bracken's face.
and you just raise up
and there's dead bodies
as far as the eye can see.
And on the morning when we
shot it. it had rained a lot.
And so. it was incredibly misty
and sort of spooky-looking
and it wound up being
the perfect weather
for a scene like that.
Mason: It's one of those ones
where you don't really know
what it's gonna look like because we
knew it was gonna be in the water.
and he's kinda semi-submerged
and the sword is going
through his neck.
which meant getting in the
stream. having to dress it in.
And luckily. we had some great
props guys in waders helping us out.
The Aeron Bracken sword is
shot in extreme close-up.
and is actually one of the most
important shots in the show. for us.
because it's the closest
we ever get to a sword.
There was a lot of discussion about
how we get the sword to stand up.
We ended up just driving
it so far through his neck.
it would just stand
up in the ground
which was fantastic for us.
Oh. that looks so
good over there.
That (sniffles) bare back
of someone. That's great.
Dadi Einarsson: In visual
effects. the rule of thumb is
you do as much
practical as you can.
With Waldo. the bar is
pretty high with him.
so he does amazing stuff. and
we can take it from there.
There's quite a bit to
do. Uh. there's obviously
a windmill that's not there
that we need to put in.
Setting fire to the mill.
and boundary stones.
and then we get
to that end shot.
which is the aftermath
of the battle.
but we're expanding
that enormously.
So. yeah. it was a
fairly big shot for us.
Tim Lewis: When
the camera tilts up
and we see the aftermath
with that beautiful sword.
just tells the story
without actually showing
any physical
violence whatsoever.
Patel: It was one of my
favorite days of shooting
because all departments came
together so quickly that morning
to create the tone
of that epic moment
in George's books.
- No. it's good. Tight.
- (indistinct chatter)
♪
It's genuinely been the best
time I've ever had on set.
Ever. It's so much fun.
♪
Condal: Moondancer's
a brand-new dragon.
so the description that
I gave to the designers
was simply. "David Bowie."
And we ended up with
this like tiger-striped.
green punk rocker with a mohawk.
and I'm thrilled with
the outcome of it.
She is the coolest of them all.
I am biased. but she's
really. really slender.
She's pale green.
She's so fast.
The Crownlands sequence
where Baela is chasing
Cole and Gwayne...
it's just a very fun.
classic chase scene.
Everybody has to use their
imagination in those moments.
but ultimately. it's down to
the VFX team to make it real.
So. it's essential that
they're right next to you
and what you're shooting
is going to work for them.
This is what happens
behind the scenes.
I'm just goin' on a
practice joy... (laughs)
practice joyride.
Rickwood: Katie. the DP.
and the guys in the buck
and all the lighting
technicians are working there
with the manumatic rig
and all that technology.
they get together and
work through everything
to make sure they getting what
the VFX department
need for the post work.
Thomas Horton: So the whole dragon
process was incredibly complicated.
as they are characters
acting within a scene.
and we have to work
out their performance
before we get to
the actual location.
A lot of moving parts in
terms of scale. size. speed.
So really a lot of logistics
about how this is gonna
come together from a
practical point of view
and what can we actually shoot.
and then. what actually
really needs to be happening
in the shots at the end.
So there's a lot of
science involved in that
in terms of dragon
speeds and distances.
in terms of that chase.
James Thompson: We have
developed a system.
so. through camera. we
can take the footage
and we can apply
it to a CG scene
using Unreal Engine.
And what that does is allow us
to see the solved
camera move on the buck
recomposed onto the dragon in CG
for a sort of slap
comp. if you like.
just so they can
see in video village
that the move is
working correctly.
It's hard work.
- Dragonriding. you know?
- (laughter)
Goldschmidt: Because we shot
the buck work of that sequence
before we had shot
the location work.
the main challenge.
lighting-wise. was we didn't know
if the location was gonna be
sunny. if it would be cloudy.
So. we had to do
one pass for sun
and one pass for shade.
Patel: It's fun
filming on the buck.
It's incredibly strategic
because you have to understand
the difference between
fantasy and naturalism.
So. thinking about how much
wind goes on someone's face
when you're actually going
at terminal velocity.
how someone moves on an animal.
All of these things
are really important.
I don't think there's much
you can do in a profile shot.
(laughing)
Unless you turn to the camera
and go. "This is amazing!"
(laughter)
You get shown a mock-up of what
you look like on the dragon.
like a half-hybrid
cartoon version of you
doing the whole sequence.
and then. suddenly.
you're really. like.
digging your heels in
as though it's a horse.
It's bonkers.
Goldschmidt: It's great when
you get an actor like Bethany.
who loves the experience
and is putting their all into it
because so much of what
you're doing is imaginary.
so everybody has to
be on the same page.
Bethany Antonia: Nothing
can prepare you for what
that first day on the
buck is gonna be like.
It's the most insane thing
I've ever done in
my career so far.
and being so high up
and bein' able to see
how many people it
takes to make this show.
and you're just all on
your own on that dragon.
I was like. "Wow. This is a really
cool thing that we're doin'."
She was havin' an amazing time.
She couldn't wait to get
on the buck every day.
which makes everyone
else's life a lot easier.
(laughing) It's like
goin' to Disneyland
at. like. terminal velocity.
only you're dressed
like this. (giggles)
It's the best day at
work ever. (chuckles)
♪
Do you like me gold bits?
- Speaker: Fancy gold bits.
- Well. ya know.
Condal: Aegon is
obsessed with namesakes
and symbols of legitimacy.
He has his father's
Valyrian dagger.
which. of course. he doesn't
realize the full significance of.
He has Aegon the Conqueror's
crown. he has his name.
and I think he's trying
to legitimize himself
now in the absence of Otto
saying. "This is my reign now."
and he wants to cut this image
of this warrior conqueror king.
So we see him having
this ancient armor
that's probably been pulled
out of some dusty corner
of the armory being
fitted to him.
What's it actually called?
- A gorget.
- Like a courgette that you eat.
Oh. it's way better.
G-Gorget's way better.
Condal: We hear a lot about
Valyrian steel weapons.
We don't hear a lot about
Valyrian steel armor.
but it felt like that
was something that
Aegon the Conqueror would've had
from his time in Old Valyria
as. like. a House
Targaryen family heirloom.
a suit of armor that
would be. in theory.
very light and very strong
because of its make.
So the assignment that I gave
to Caroline and Simon Brindle
was that I wanted an ancient suit
of armor made of Valyrian steel
that seemed like it
was from Old Valyria.
And I think the
execution is dazzling.
- Hello.
- Nice armor.
- Yes!
Joanna Lynch: Aegon's armor
was a huge challenge for us.
In the designing and
the making of it.
I've never had so many meetings
about a set of armor in my life.
Simon Brindle: It was a
significant undertaking
in terms of Aegon the Conqueror
is a really major character in
the whole Westeros universe.
so we wanted to create
something that was iconic.
Caroline spent a lot
of time designing it.
and then. we developed it.
- Whoa.
- (laughter)
- 'Kay. great. Thank you.
- Speaker: Shout for help
- when you need to get up.
- I will. Turtle.
Brindle: Ordinarily.
a build like that
would be somewhere
between 16 to 20 weeks.
It can be shorter. but if
you're doing a bespoke piece.
with every element
sized to the actor.
you. essentially. have to
make every piece from scratch.
So that was 20 weeks of work.
It's got quite
architectural shapes
within the forms and outline.
And then. probably. another
good four weeks plus
just putting on the
Valyrian steel detailing.
A lot of work. but great to do.
The first thing
was practicality.
so it should be as
flexible as possible.
So I looked at every sort
of armor you can imagine.
It needed to feel like
an ancient culture.
so there's some
Greco-Roman influences.
I wanted the dragon
reflected in its design.
so that there's a
scale-like quality to it.
Brindle: It's Aegon I.
so it's still an ancient piece.
but being Valyrian steel.
it's immaculately crafted.
We wanted to create something
ancient and otherworldly.
There's an element of almost
brutalist architecture in there.
It draws a lot on the architecture
of the Targaryen dynasty.
It wound through
three processes.
We started with the
initial armor build.
individually fitted and
crafted and sculpted
to the shape of Tom.
Then we introduced the
angularity and sharpness
and a lot of referencing
to dragon forms.
With it being Aegon.
there's a lot of talon
and scale forms in there that run
through the tassets and the skirt scales
through a lot of
small detailings.
And then we got into the
whole Valyrian steel.
which was (laughs) like
adding an additional build
on top of everything
because we then come
back to our original
forms and shapes. lift patterns
from the surfaces
of every piece.
create artwork for
the Valyrian steel.
and then apply it
to every surface.
So. it was quite involved.
Speaker: Give it a bit
of a shimmy. I reckon.
- That's it.
- (crosstalk. laughter)
They work so
unbelievably hard on
creating the armor
and the helmet
and everything
that goes with it.
The attention to
detail is mind-blowing.
It is satisfying when you can
see them enjoy the costume
and it works for them
and it's helping them
develop their character.
And he looks incredible
in his armor.
Tom Glynn-Carney: Heavy.
Conqueror's armor is very heavy.
but it looks amazing.
Valyrian steel.
It's got the crown sort of
built into it. which is amazing.
It took a little
while to get right.
but I've never felt
more heroic in my life.
I'm as fearsome as any of them.
♪
(indistinct chatter)
It's just so rainy.
So rainy and so wet.
Clay: Driftmark
Harbor is a dry dock.
The Sea Snake boat has come back
from war and is being repaired.
The harbor itself is quite high.
It's about five meters high.
going down into the mud
and the silt of the dock
when the sea is out.
And then. obviously. that
has to be surrounded.
so you can shoot 360 degrees.
From start to walking on the set
was probably 16 or 18 weeks.
Masters: Jim is the
master of the grand scale.
so it started off an already
big project to take on.
A lot of structure in that
because we built up to.
I think. probably.
five meters high.
A hell of a lot of plaster work
involved in a set like that.
And then the props came in
with some lovely dressing
to make it feel like
you're in a boatyard
because this was a
ship under repair.
so it needed to have that
feel of guys heavily working.
Condal: It's the biggest set
that I think Jim ever built.
It's massive and expansive.
I mean. all that stuff
that you're seeing
is in camera.
including the ship.
Really only the extensions
out to sea and beyond
into the next slips
that are virtual.
And it just blew me away the
first time I walked on it.
Eve Best: (laughs) I've totally
forgotten what I have to say
- because there's so much rain all over...
- All on my face. yeah.
Patel: We had spent months
preparing for the scene.
and then we found out that the
day we were gonna shoot it.
it was going to be
torrential rain.
So. we moved the scene and
we added rain machines.
After eight hours of SFX rain.
you're gonna get some leaks.
and the water started pooling
in the bottom of the set.
and we had to keep
digging it out.
For being such a simple scene.
it became actually quite
complicated to shoot.
The fake rain was
like a monsoon.
Dawson: If you ask Geeta.
"How heavy do you want it?"
She goes. "I want
Bollywood 10."
But at first. I was like. "I
have no idea what you mean."
but I did some research
and it's full-on heavy. big.
and I love her for that.
And we did. did we not?
Best: That scene in the rain.
that was just such a
(laughs) bonkers day.
"And at one point. I said.
"There is actual rain outside.
Are you sure that we
need this extra monsoon?"
And we were all in kind of like
Noah's Ark. with the water rising.
Steve Toussaint: The minute you
get out there. pouring with rain.
then they'd go. "Turn
the machines on."
I mean. you were
literally soaked.
And by the time that you
got under the shelter
to talk to her.
you were drenched.
And also. I was
leaning on a post
and there was. uh. like. a
torrent of water coming down.
So as I turn my head
away from the camera.
I was getting completely bathed.
It was. oh. it was
fun. but it wasn't.
Best: That feels
a lot of rain.
Patel: The scene that.
originally. was very romantic
ended up still romantic
because now they were underneath
this bridge in the rain.
so I think it came
full circle in the end.
♪
Free Gift Cards and Tech Items with
Southwest Points: www.fairylandshop.me